--DONE--
*(1/2) Black & White: Convert to gray levels by replacing each pixel with its luminance.
*(1/2) Gamma: Apply a gamma correction to the image.
(1/3) Saturation: Change the saturation of an image. See Graphica Obscura.
(1/3) Contrast: Change the contrast of an image. See Graphica Obscura.
(1/3) Extract Channel: Leave specified channel intact and set all others to zero.
*(1) Gaussian Blur: Blur an image by convolving it with a Gaussian low-pass filter.
(1/3) Sharpen: Apply a linear sharpening filter to the image.
(1/3) Edge detect: Detect edges in an image by convolving it with an edge detection kernel.
(1/3) Motion Blur: Apply a left-right motion blur to the image.
(1) Median Filter: Remove speckle noise using a median filter of given width
*(2) Bilateral Filter: Smooth while preserving sharp edges in the original. See here.
*(2) Scale: Scale an image up or down by a real valued factor.
(2) Rotate: Rotate an image by a given angle.
(1/3) Quantize: Change the number of bits per channel of an image, using simple rounding.
(2/3) Random dither: Convert an image to a given number of bits per channel, using a random threshold.
(2) Ordered dither: Convert an image to a given number of bits per channel, using a 4x4 ordered dithering matrix.
*(2) Floyd-Steinberg dither: Convert an image to a given number of bits per channel, using dithering with error diffusion.
*(1) Composite: Compose one image with a second image using the over operator, with a third image as a matte (alpha).
*(3) Morph: Use pairs of corresponding lines to morph a source image into a target image using a morph parameter t. See [Beier92]. Use the provided line correspondence editor to define the line correspondences.
20 points

--NOT DONE--

Reverse line on Contrast/Saturation to preserve alpha
Comment Gaussian
Motion blur: Check left edge?
Median: It's square atm. that ok?
Check Makefile to produce more than 1 version of filter
Bilateral: Weird purple ringing? (maybe this was jpeg artifacts)
Scaling : choose better sigma
Blur: Change to use sample?
Makefile for dithers
Composite: Currnetly needs to be the same size. Also blue is 1.0 and black 0.0
alpha right? Or not? Bottom mask has to be all blue right?
Makefile for composite
Makefile for morph
Morph clean up duplicated code

*(2) Fun: Warp an image using a non-linear mapping of your choice (examples are fisheye, sine, bulge, swirl).
(up to 3) Nonphotorealism: Implement any non-trivial painterly filter. For inspiration, take a look at the effects available in programs like xv, PhotoShop, and Image Composer, or GIMP (e.g., impressionist, charcoal, stained glass, etc.). The points awarded for this feature will depend on the creativity and difficulty of the filter. At most one such filter will receive points.
(up to 3) Anything else: Implement any non-trivial image processing algorithm of your own choosing, and we will give you points according to the difficulty.
